Well, good morning.
I didn't particularly want to be up here this morning.
And as you can imagine, there's a heaviness on my heart that I think is OK. And for all of you experiencing that same heaviness, I would say, press into it.
Don't deny it.
Don't suppress it.
It's an invitation from the Holy Spirit in a really challenging circumstance.
Because I know that he has been faithful and steadfast, immovable, the rock of my salvation time and time and time again.
And the other reality of it is I don't have anything to offer you.
No formulated words or process as we navigate through this.
I don't have grand wisdom beyond what the spirit of God has given to me in circumstances and walked me through this.
And part of me wanted to just sit down with each of you one on one, but I know that that would take so long.
And so as I reflect on what God has put in my heart over these circumstances and in these deeply challenging conversations and wrestling with thoughts within my own spirit, it is His work.
It is His kingdom.
So as I try to unpack where God has met me and give shape to this, I had fashioned, as I was sharing with our team this morning, notes maybe, maybe an outline and then continued throughout the week feeling like that was not right.
Then I would reform or reformulate some ideas or thoughts and where God had met me
that didn't feel right.
And what did feel right was doing this in community with one another.
And what I mean by that is I had the opportunity to engage with a lot of individuals, maybe one to one, maybe over a phone call, maybe via email.
And the reality is that we are the kingdom of God present in this world.
There is a future hope that we have that he's gonna come and he's gonna give us a new creation, a new heaven and a new earth.
But what is present reality today is we are the kingdom of God.
And we are meant to do this together.
And this outcome is not the desirable outcome of our Father.
And yet God works in these circumstances and he's still exalted and he's still glorified and his kingdom will reign and he will prevail.
I believe that.
And we have this invitation and this opportunity and this really raw hard circumstance to say, what is it Lord that you're inviting me to here?
Because I don't like this.
I don't like it.
I think if we were honest with ourselves, if we look through history, through the scriptures, we will see that people are broken.
And people that are put in positions are broken.
People that are put in leadership positions by God are broken.
People that are sitting in these chairs are broken.
People that lead worship are broken.
And ultimately, he's gonna redeem all of that one day.
But as we walk together in this, he's looking to develop in us a character like who?
Like himself.
But we want final destination.
We wanna be there.
We wanna arrive.
And character develop, we know doesn't happen like that.
He says, when we go to prayer before him and we say, Lord, would you develop this thing in me?
I reflect back on like, in the Christmas season, we had the opportunity to do some devotions.
And I was given the Prince of Peace.
And I thought, man, if I need that peace in my life, I need to understand patience.
And if I need patience, I need to pray for that.
And then when I pray for patience, he's going to throw me into the waiting.
And that's not easy.
There's a really harsh reality to coming to terms with the fact that I have to address something in my life that I'm not willing to surrender over to him.
My dad had sent me a
a verse this week, one verse, and at first I was like, man, I don't want to receive that.
Psalm 27.4, it said, bind the festival sacrifice to the horn of the altar.
And I thought to myself, I don't even know if I want to process through what all that means,
As I dug into that a little bit more and I allowed the spirit to speak through that, I thought to myself, man, do we bring everything to the horn of the altar?
What does the horn represent?
It represents a place of refuge, of surrender, and knowing that I trust him and I'm gonna surrender those things at the horn of the altar.
And then it says they bind them there.
Not that they just bring them before him and go, all right, that's yours.
I'm walking away.
No, they bind them there and say, this is yours, God.
I'm giving this over to you.
I surrender this part of my life to you.
I want you to do a work in it.
So what is that for us today?
Certainly the harsh reality of the circumstances that we're in.
Yeah, that's one.
But one of the things I don't want you to do, as I said earlier on, is I don't want you to rush through this.
I was listening to a song this morning.
It's called The Slower I Go by SEU Worship.
I'm just going to bring up the lyrics so I can read them to you.
Slow feet, slow plans.
steadfast in patience, rid me of my quickness, I'll be soon to listen.
It seems as though the slower I go, the faster I arrive.
And I thought to myself, Lord, would you help me to move at what I've often learned to be Godspeed?
Maybe the walking pace as I've learned through a
through a friend of mine, the walking pace of man is about three miles an hour.
Maybe it's the relational capacity with one another and the kingdom of God to care with one another, to bear with one another as Colossians and Ephesians says, and to bear one another's burdens.
Because I know that the call is that Paul would say, it is no longer I who live but Christ and me, but that takes a lot more development and it does intentional like this is my destination, I'm gonna do this because Jesus said I'm now saved so I'm like him, no.
He's working that out in us.
There's a study through scripture in early church that I wasn't too familiar with before coming to Crossway, but it was brought to my attention and I really appreciated the practice.
It's called Lectio Divina.
And it's just a reading of a passage of scripture.
It's just a way to engage with scripture, but it's a reading of passage of scripture, meditate on that scripture, maybe give some words or thoughts to that scripture, and then reflection on that scripture.
What I would encourage you to do is that, because as we slow down, Lectio Divina is a practice or a rhythm for us in our lives that gives us space and quiet and stillness as that song talks about, that's slower, slow down, listen.
Do we really embrace that idea of being still and knowing that he is God?
We live in a hurried pace and a fast life and we need results and we need the conclusion.
And yet he's asking us to walk this out to know that he's God, he's faithful.
His presence is available.
Thank you to the team for serving us this morning and ushering us into His presence because the posture was what?
Him.
It's not anything we have to offer.
He uses our gifts certainly as we surrender them over to Him.
He uses us to position people, to care for people, to focus on who He is.
the heart of Paul and first Corinthians.
And I'm going to kind of do a lot of jumping around because there's a lot of good stuff in here.
It's packed and I couldn't nail it down.
So one of the things is I was preparing Paul says to the Corinthians,
For Christ did not send me to baptize but to preach the gospel and not with words of eloquent wisdom, lest the cross of Christ be emptied of its power."
I said to you earlier, I have nothing to bring.
It's by his spirit.
So I would ask that you would be receptive to what it is the spirit of God is convicting or stirring in your heart.
So that he can do that work and that so no man can take credit.
but that he would ultimately be glorified and you would say, God is continuing to do a work in me.
I won't discount or discredit that.
He's been doing a work in you and he's continuing to draw his face to his, taking your face and he's drawing your face to his face.
And I just think that as I was reflecting on that, I'm going, man, Lord, I know you want to do your work and you've been doing your work.
And then as I was reflecting on that, I'm going, man, this is truly the kingdom as we work this out in relationship together.
But he's been doing this work for generations.
Now we see a logo and a name by association.
It's not a branding or marketing.
It's just this is the group of people that we connect with.
And our group of people that we connect with is a fellowship of believers who want to walk this out and be faithful to one another.
But that doesn't mean that the Catholic Church down the road, the priest doesn't love Jesus and wants to walk that out with him.
Or that light of the world church doesn't want to walk that out with him.
Or that the bridge church or the Baptist church or the Presbyterian church, there are people who love Jesus and are trying to bring people to his face by just giving them an opportunity to gather together and pursue after him.
It's Christ's church.
I think about the fact that early on the Israelites were in this theocratic environment.
And yet at some point they decided we want infrastructure around this.
We want to have a king.
We want to put shape to this.
We want to understand what this looks like in this particular environment.
That's what they have.
That's what we want.
So I even think denominationally, this is what I want, this is what we want, we're gonna go down this road, we're gonna separate, we believe this, we believe that, blah, blah, blah, we only get to Jesus by doing X, Y, or Z. I can tell you that's not what Jesus said.
Jesus said, I'm the gate.
I'm the good shepherd.
Anyone who comes any other way into the sheepfold except through me leads to what?
Death and destruction.
It's by no other way.
So let us come only through him.
It's not by denominational differences.
It's not by your belief system.
It's not because of your preference.
It's none of that.
It's only Christ.
So to what Paul said, do I discount or discredit?
I don't want to speak my words.
I want the power of the cross to be evident.
He challenges us in Ephesians.
He says, the world will know of
Him, Christ, by the unity among you.
That's hard in a circumstance like this.
It's not an accusation, it's just an observation.
As we walk through hard things, it flares up things inside of us.
Responses, sometimes they're really painful.
Would you be willing to walk it out faithfully committed to one another?
Not for this, not a logo, a brand, a marketing strategy.
It's just a group of people again that are connected to each other, have invested in each other and loved one another, cared for one another, bred together and bonded together and over different things.
And hope that we will be able to continue in doing that in so many ways.
How many would say that the spirit of God met them in worship this morning?
Before he knew you in the physical form, he knew you by spirit.
He created you before you were knitted together in your mother's womb.
So that means there is a spirit dwelling inside of this physical body that we can only understand through this physical thing
And we give so much power to the physical, the flesh.
And he is ever longing for us to experience his spirit like that in the garden.
He wants to experience relationship with us, communion with us, walking with us, day in and day out, moment after moment.
In John, he says he pours out his spirit, not in measure.
He just pours it out.
It's available in its fullness.
He says, I pour out my spirit.
And yeah, he's talking about Jesus, but guess what?
We're co-heirs with Christ.
So he's saying, I'm pouring out my spirit.
It's available to you.
And what do I do?
Forgive me, Lord, because I suppress the spirit because of what I want to do in my flesh or my personal preference.
That's not what he's called us to.
And yet I know that that is a process of development.
He's working out character in me that would be like him so that I can point people to Jesus.
So God, would you do that in my heart?
Would you do that in my life?
So that people wouldn't be able to find a way in me that doesn't point them to Jesus?
Do I walk with care?
Do I demonstrate patience?
Is his love present in my life?
And do I really, really walk this out with self-control?
came to give us life and life abundantly.
And that abundant life can only be experienced through his spirit in us.
He says that he came through the spirit to give life and peace.
How many would say that they want to experience that peace?
You know, you can maybe, maybe you're familiar with passages of scripture that in Philippians do not be anxious about anything, but by prayer and petition present your request to God.
I don't want to do that from rote memorization.
I want to do that in practical reality.
I want to feel all the emotions that I'm feeling and I want to be authentic.
What a series we've been going through in Jeremiah.
Authentic prayers prayed to God of desperation and hurt.
maybe for a generation of people or a community of people, but nonetheless, just this raw emotion.
And God hears and listens and speaks and He meets them in those places.
Now, if I were to think about Jeremiah, Jeremiah 29, 11, common verse, maybe you know this one, that I have plans to prosper you, not to harm you, to give you a hope and a future
But what?
We have to do what?
What's the call?
What's the response?
Love the Lord your God with everything inside of you.
Pursue after him.
Everything inside of you.
If it's everything inside of me, then I have to put to death a lot of the stuff that's inside of here.
Habakkuk, not a passage that we've been going through and probably not one that is often referenced.
but Habakkuk, another prophet, similar timeframe as Jeremiah, is crying out to God, and I love the way Eugene Peterson in the message frames some of the text in that.
It starts with like, God, how long am I gonna have to cry out?
Murder, police, help.
And to give some context to that, it was,
It was the same timeframe as Jeremiah and the Babylonians are basically being positioned to take over the Israelites.
I can't imagine that was a beautiful thing to embrace.
And so he's wrestling in his raw communication with God and God meets him, responds back.
He prays again.
And at the end,
of Habakkuk chapter three.
It's a tough one to find, I promise.
Nahum, Habakkuk.
Though the fig tree should not blossom, nor fruit be on the vines, the produce of the olive fail.
And the fields yield no food.
The flock be cut off from the fold and there be no herd in the stalls.
Yet I will rejoice in the Lord.
I will take joy in the God of my salvation.
God, the Lord is my strength.
He makes my feet like the deers.
He makes me tread on my high places.
God, would you give me that heart?
to trust you amidst all circumstances, regardless of what I see in the physical and the natural, would I just trust that your kingdom is going to prevail?
There's so much in here.
says you keep him in perfect peace whose mind has stayed on you because he trusts in you.
Trust in the Lord forever for the Lord God is an everlasting rock.
It's Isaiah 26.
Thousands of years and yet he's been constant and everlasting rock.
I can testify that in my own life, and I'm sure you can in yours.
And again, I'll reference Colossians and Ephesians where Paul says, would you bear with one another?
Would you bear one another's burdens?
Would you walk together in this and be faithful?
This is not Paul anymore.
This is just from my heart.
Would you care for one another?
And would you maybe just listen?
Listen for the spirit of God speaking to your heart.
Listen to someone's story.
God is gonna use Chris and Lisa beyond this place.
Why the outcome had to be this way?
I don't know.
I don't have the answers to that.
But Lord, would you use them to minister your heart?
Would you advance your kingdom to prevail?
Would you bless them with your presence?
Would you keep them in your steadfast peace?
And similarly Lord, would you do that here?
because like we talked about earlier, his spirit's moving right down the street.
His spirit's moving in hearts that didn't come today.
He's ministering to people at their bedside.
God's spirit is alive in us.
He wants to dwell right here with us.
And yet I've seen how beautiful these times together have been with each other.
In meal sharing,
in conversation and wrestling with Bible studies and walking through hard book studies of things that God has done in other people's lives and they can share nuggets of wisdom with us.
He wants us to walk this out together, but it all points back to him.
It all points back to him.
And if it ever doesn't, we need to question that.
It's his kingdom.
He will prevail.
Do you know that it's nearly impossible for us to love one another on our own?
And he's calling us to this self-sacrificial love.
It means that I have to put the interests of mine down here and yours up here.
So whatever that looks like going forward, what's that challenge to us?
How does that look?
Do you have a need?
I need to be there to meet it.
We need to meet it.
We need to be that to each other, the church.
Church is not these four walls.
It's not the Crossway marketing logo.
It's not Chris and Lisa's church.
It's not Dave Ripper's church.
It's not Dan Lyle's church.
It's not Tim and Jones church.
It's not Dave Smith who started this church.
It's none of that.
They would agree.
So would Dave.
So would Dan.
Where's Dan?
It's God's church.
Let us always keep that in view that as we walk with one another, that we care for each other and we bear with one another.
Bear with means, I know all the things you've done to me,
I know all the sins, right?
We don't want to air all our laundry sometimes.
But I'm going to bear with you in this because that's what I've been called to.
And I'm going to do it with you and I'm going to walk beside you and I'm going to encourage you.
And I'm going to say here in the word of God, he's faithful.
So I'm going to be faithful to you in it as well.
We can learn a lot of things from people who have gone before.
And so there's this prayer that I found that really just met me.
as I was reading, and I've shared from this before, it's called the cloud of witnesses, a treasury of prayers and petitions through the ages.
It's just a prayer for peace.
Says the spirit comes to bring life.
I want to experience that in peace, another one, right?
It's a prayer for peace from the Syrian Clementine liturgy.
Would you just close your eyes?
If you're comfortable, a posture of surrendered hands to the Lord, maybe just a heart posture of that to the Lord,
Oh God, the unfathomable abyss of peace, the inexpressible sea of love, the fount of all blessings, and the affectionate Father, the one who sends peace to all who receive it.
We ask that you would open to us the depths of your love and saturate us with the overflowing streams
of riches from your grace.
Make us children of calm and heirs of peace.
Ignite in us the fire of your love and kindle in us a true reverence for you.
In your power strengthen us in our weakness.
Keep us close to you and join us to each other with a firm bond of unity.
We ask all of this
for the sake of Jesus Christ.
Amen.
Thank you for letting me share my heart this morning.
The worship team's gonna come back up and just play in Christ alone.
It is by His grace.
And so they're just gonna lead us in that chorus together.
Tim's gonna share some announcements and things going on just to kinda keep us in tune.
But just thank you.
We love you and I look forward to
opportunities to get to chat with each and every one of you.